Documentation/operation docs rework (#3074)
scality/metalk8s: docs/operation/account_administration/user_authentication_and_identity_management.rst

      root@bootstrap $ kubectl --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf \
                         edit configmap metalk8s-dex-config -n metalk8s-auth

   .. code-block:: yaml

      # [...]
      data:
        config.yaml: |-
          apiVersion: addons.metalk8s.scality.com/v1alpha2
          kind: DexConfiguration
          spec:
            # [...]
            config:
              # [...]
              staticPasswords:
                # [...]
                - email: "<previous-email>"
                  hash: "<new-password-hash>"
                  username: "<previous-username>"
                  userID: "<previous-identifier>"
                # [...]

#. Apply your changes.

   .. parsed-literal::

      root\@bootstrap $ kubectl exec -n kube-system -c salt-master \\
                         --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf \\
                         salt-master-bootstrap -- salt-run state.sls \\
                         metalk8s.addons.dex.deployed saltenv=metalk8s-|version|

#. Check that the password has been changed. If so, log into the MetalK8s UI
   using the new password.

.. todo::

   Add documentation on the following

   - Dex connectors

>    - How to add a new connector (LDAP, AD, SAML)

Reviewer: This "to-do" could be moved in the `account_administration/index`, since the topics would likely warrant dedicated documents.

User Authentication and Identity Management
===========================================

In MetalK8s, user authentication and identity management are driven by

> the integration of `kube-apiserver` and Dex (an OIDC provider).

Reviewer 2: double backtick

Reviewer 2: I would put "Dex, an OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider."

> Kubernetes API enables OpenID Connect (OIDC) as one authentication strategy

Reviewer 2: And here, only OIDC as the acronym was explained above

(it also supports certificate-based authentication) by trusting Dex as an

> OIDC Provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OIDC provider.
```

Dex can authenticate users against:

   - a static user store (stored in configuration),

>    - a connector-based interface, allowing to plug in external providers such

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - a connector-based interface, allowing external providers such
```

Reviewer 3: Alternatively: 
allowing plug-ins from such external providers as

>      as LDAP, SAML, GitHub, Active Directory and others.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     as LDAP, SAML, GitHub, Active Directory and others to plug in.
```

.. note::

>    MetalK8s out of the box enables OpenID Connect (OIDC) based authentication

Reviewer 2: out-of-the-box?
@gdemonet  what does this mean?

>    MetalK8s out of the box enables OpenID Connect (OIDC) based authentication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Out of the box, MetalK8s enables OIDC-based authentication
```

   for its UI and Grafana service.

.. _ops-grafana-admin:

Administering Grafana and MetalK8s UI
-------------------------------------

> When installing MetalK8s for the first time, the UI and Grafana service are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When MetalK8s is first installed, the UI and Grafana service are
```

> set with default login credentials: ``admin@metalk8s.invalid`` / ``password``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
set with the default login credentials ``admin@metalk8s.invalid`` and ``password``.
```

> This default user is defined in Dex configuration as a static user to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This default user is defined as a static user in the Dex configuration to
```

> enable MetalK8s administrators' first access to these services. It is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
enable MetalK8s administrators' first access to these services. 
```

> recommended to change the default password after the first login.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Change the default password after the first login.
```

.. note::

   The MetalK8s UI and Grafana are both configured to use OIDC as

>    an authentication mechanism, and trust Dex as a Provider. Changing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   an authentication mechanism, and trust Dex as a provider. Changing
```

>    the Dex configuration, including the default credentials, will impact

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   the Dex configuration, including the default credentials, affects
```

   both UIs.

> For information on how to access the MetalK8s UI and Grafana service, refer to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To access the MetalK8s UI and Grafana service, see
```

:ref:`Accessing Cluster Services <installation-services-admin-ui>`.

.. _add-dex-static-user:

Adding a Static User
--------------------

> To add a static user for the MetalK8s UI and/or Grafana service perform the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add a static user for the MetalK8s UI or the Grafana service, perform the
```

following steps from the Bootstrap node.

.. _generate-password-hash:

#. Generate a bcrypt hash of your password.

   .. code-block:: shell

      root@bootstrap $ htpasswd -nBC 14 "" | tr -d ':'
      New password:
      Re-type new password:
      <your hash here, starting with "$2y$14$">

#. Generate a unique identifier.

   .. code-block:: shell

      root@bootstrap $ python -c 'import uuid; print uuid.uuid4()'

#. Add a new entry in the ``staticPasswords`` list. Use the password hash and

>    user ID previously generated, and choose a new email and username.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   user ID previously generated, and choose a new email and user name.
```

   .. code-block:: shell

>       root@bootstrap $ kubectl --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf \

Reviewer 3: unbreak line if sphinx-copybutton is enabled

                         edit configmap metalk8s-dex-config -n metalk8s-auth

   .. code-block:: yaml

      # [...]
      data:
        config.yaml: |-
          apiVersion: addons.metalk8s.scality.com/v1alpha2
          kind: DexConfiguration
          spec:
            # [...]
            config:
              # [...]
              staticPasswords:
                # [...]
                - email: "<email>"
                  hash: "<generated-password-hash>"
                  username: "<username>"
                  userID: "<generated-identifier>"

#. Apply your changes.

   .. parsed-literal::

>       root\@bootstrap $ kubectl exec -n kube-system -c salt-master \\

Reviewer 3: un-escape for sphinx-copybutton. If you leave the escapes in, is there a reason for the double-escape characters?

Reviewer: Double-escapes are required in `parsed-literal` blocks.

                         --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf \\
                         salt-master-bootstrap -- salt-run state.sls \\
                         metalk8s.addons.dex.deployed saltenv=metalk8s-|version|

> #. Bind the user to an existing (Cluster)Role using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Bind the user to an existing (Cluster) role using
```

   :ref:`ClusterRoleBlinding <bind-user-to-role>`.

#. Check that the user has been successfully added. If so, log into the
   MetalK8s UI using the new email and password.

.. _change-dex-static-user-password:

Changing Static User Password
-----------------------------

.. important::

   **Default admin user**

>    A new MetalK8s installation is supplied with a default administrator account,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   A new MetalK8s installation is supplied with a default administrator account
```

   and a predefined password (see :ref:`Use MetalK8s UI <default-admin-login>`).

>    You must change this password if your control plane network is accessible

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Change this password if the control plane network is accessible
```

   to untrusted clients.

> To change the default password for the MetalK8s UI and/or Grafana service,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To change the default password for the MetalK8s UI or the Grafana service,
```

perform the following steps from the Bootstrap node.

#. Generate a bcrypt hash of the new password.

    .. code-block:: shell

       root@bootstrap $ htpasswd -nBC 14 "" | tr -d ':'
       New password:
       Re-type new password:
       <your hash here, starting with "$2y$14$">

> #. Find the entry for the selected user in the ``staticPasswords`` list,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Find the entry for the selected user in the ``staticPasswords`` list
```

>    and update its ``hash``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   and update its hash.
```

   .. code-block:: shell

>       root@bootstrap $ kubectl --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf \

Reviewer 3: Last mention of line-end escapes. We have a hack for that.

User Authentication and Identity Management
===========================================

In MetalK8s, user authentication and identity management are driven by
the integration of ``kube-apiserver`` and Dex, an OpenID Connect (OIDC)
provider.

Kubernetes API enables OIDC as one authentication strategy
(it also supports certificate-based authentication) by trusting Dex as an
OIDC provider.

Dex can authenticate users against:

   - a static user store (stored in configuration),
   - a connector-based interface, allowing plug-ins from such external
     providers as LDAP, SAML, GitHub, Active Directory and others to plug in.

.. note::

>    Out of the box, MetalK8s enables OIDC-based authentication

Reviewer: Agreed, this "out of the box" may not be super useful, but I'm fine with keeping it.

   for its UI and Grafana service.

.. _ops-grafana-admin:

Administering Grafana and MetalK8s UI
-------------------------------------

When MetalK8s is first installed, the UI and Grafana service are
set with the default login credentials ``admin@metalk8s.invalid``, and

> ``password``.

Reviewer: Technically speaking, this paragraph is "wrong". Can be tackled in another PR, but I think it'd make more sense to describe "the default admin user", which grants access to MetalK8s UI, K8s API and Grafana.

"a service is set with some credentials" doesn't make sense to me - especially since such services **are not** managing users, only consuming/verifying identities, provided by... the aforementioned OpenID Connect provider, Dex :wink:.

Reviewer: Opened #3187

#. Add a new entry in the ``staticPasswords`` list. Use the password hash and
   user ID previously generated, and choose a new email and user name.

   .. code-block:: shell

      root@bootstrap $ kubectl --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf \
                         edit configmap metalk8s-dex-config -n metalk8s-auth

   .. code-block:: yaml

      # [...]
      data:
        config.yaml: |-
          apiVersion: addons.metalk8s.scality.com/v1alpha2
          kind: DexConfiguration
          spec:
            # [...]
            config:
              # [...]
              staticPasswords:
                # [...]
                - email: "<email>"
                  hash: "<generated-password-hash>"
                  username: "<username>"
                  userID: "<generated-identifier>"

#. Apply your changes.

   .. parsed-literal::

      root\@bootstrap $ kubectl exec -n kube-system -c salt-master \\
                         --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf \\
                         salt-master-bootstrap -- salt-run state.sls \\
                         metalk8s.addons.dex.deployed saltenv=metalk8s-|version|

> #. Bind the user to an existing (Cluster) role using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Bind the user to an existing (Cluster)Role using
```

_Role_ and _ClusterRole_ are API objects, just as _StorageClass_ is. Let's keep the capitalization.

>    :ref:`ClusterRoleBlinding <bind-user-to-role>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :ref:`a ClusterRoleBinding <bind-user-to-role>`.
```
